---
title: rto
date: 2023-11-05T21:04:07-06:00
draft: false
categories: 
  - work
tags: 
  - work from home
  - remote
  - rto
  - return to office
  - commuting
---

my wife and i were talking about soap operas the other day. i was absolutely
floored that _days of our lives_ is not only still on daytime tv, but is also
available on peacock! well, the last two seasons anyway. not that you're missing
much, since season 59 has **243** episodes in it[^0]

anyway, the interesting thing about soaps that i learned from that conversation
is that you can basically hop in and out at any time without skipping a beat.
while there are some [absolutely wild story
lines](https://ew.com/tv/days-of-our-lives-binging-back-possession-storyline/)
thrown in to keep things spicy, each episode mostly follows real-world time and
elapses by roughly one day per show

given that soaps were born in an era where most of the country that could afford
television only had four channels and radio shows were still incredibly popular,
this chronology makes sense. however, in a world where you have an essentially
infinite collection of content to choose from[^1], not including short-form on
social media, the soap opera is a dying relic relegated to the bottom of your
recommended feed and your local nail salon or dentist's office

my feelings about wfh are similarly conflicted

on one hand, i am where i am in my career _because_ i worked from the office. i
got to spend lots of time with people more senior than me learning how to be a
better engineer. networking was super easy, since people usually went out on
thursday nights, and i usually partook in that. shoot, i even learned how to
lift from a really kind coworker who introduced me to [_starting
strength_](https://www.amazon.com/Starting-Strength-Basic-Barbell-Training/dp/0982522738)!
i never would've even discovered weightlifting if it weren't for him. i am also
a defective human being and actually really enjoyed commuting, usually by bike.
there was also the very coincidental benefit of the office being way nicer than
the apartment in brooklyn that i was paying for

on the other hand, like soap operas, seven years of working in an office is a
_lot_ of time. there were lots and lots and _lots_ of days that I spent mostly
on my own. i must've spent tens of thousands of hours on standups, planning
meetings, meetings meetings, "should we use this or this" discussions, drive-by
interruptions, and many other annoyances that happen significantly less
frequently. i partook in a lot of networking events, but they didn't happen
every day. they didn't even happen every week! while i sometimes miss the
[insanely good
food](https://www.seriouseats.com/lunch-at-google-insanely-awesome-as-you-thought)
at Google NYC or the really great working spaces I've had at some other places
that I've worked at, it doesn't beat me making my own quick breakfast and dinner
on my own terms and working in my perfectly curated and super private office
setup

but that's exactly the heart of my problem

we live in a much nicer place now. even though we lived in an apartment during
peak-COVID, it was a 2bd apartment in a brand new complex with a small walking
trail. we had our own working spaces, space outside to work or relax in, and,
especially now, things to do and enough money to participate in them. i'm senior
enough in my work to be (mostly) trusted to work on my own, and i don't need
external motivation to chase problems and solve them

that's not the case for everyone. in fact, i'd say that having a living space
that's good enough to do wfh is a huge luxury!

on the career progression front, i think my journey would have looked very
different had i started in a completely remote environment. i get bored easily,
and back then, when i was bored, i'd waste a ton of time on slashdot.[^2] i
definitely needed direct mentorship early in my career to get my work ethic to
where it is now, and i think that would have been difficult to get in a remote
setting

i definitely would have hated working from my apartment, and a nice coffee shop
wasn't within walking distance either

all this said, i'm a big fan of remote-first cultures that have quarterly
all-company get togethers. it's the best of both worlds. everyone gets the
benefits of working from home and the best moments of working in an office
(including the "collaboration" and "spark" that most execs defending RTO love to
talk about)

i don't think rto is the move. the cat's out of the bag, and it ain't going back
in

to be fair, though, i've been traveling for work for the last seven years
(again, i are defective), so my dog is mostly irrelevant in this fight

## footnotes

[^0]: what's even more incredible is that the title card is basically unchanged
from when s1e1 aired **in 1965!**

[^1]: people still love podcasts, though! radio shows are here to stay, i guess

[^2]: `s/slashdot/news.ycombinator.com/`
